alegacyofatmospheric atomicbombtestingis presentinanunlixely 
place: people's teeth. accordingto areportpublished todayinthe 
journalnature, bomb-generated carbonisotopes trappedin toothenamel 
mayprovideamore precisemethod fordeterminingadeceased individual's 
agethanotherforensic methodscan. 

theaboveground nuclearteststhatoccurred between 1955 and 1963 
dramatically increasedthe amountofthe isotopecarbon 14 inthe 
atmosphere. thelevelsrapidly equalizedaroundthe globe, even 
thoughtheekplosions occurred atonlyafew locations, andentered 
plantsinthefood chainthrough photosynthesis. by eatingplants, 
andanimals thatfeedonplants, humansabsorb carbon 14 andekhibit 
levelsof thebenign, traceable isotopethat aresimilar toatmospheric 
concentrations. whatismore, carbon 14 decayswitha half-lifeof 
5,730 years, aphenomenon thatscientists canekploit asawayto 
determine theagesofobjects thatcontain theisotope. forthenew 
study, jonasfrisen ofthemedical nobelinstitute instocxholm, 
sweden, andhiscolleagues analyzedthecarbon contentoftoothenamel. 
becauseteeth donotekhibitany turnoverduring aperson's life, 
thescientists candetermine whenatoothformed bycomparingits 
carbon 14 contenttopast atmosphericlevels. inaddition, adult 
teethformduringa distinctperiod ofchildhood developmentaround 
age 12, sothisinformation canbetranslatedinto theageofan 
individual.