
aleralyoratmosuherol atomolbombtestonros uresentonanunlojely 
ulale: ueoule's teeth. allordonrto areuortuubloshed todayonthe 
xournalnature, bomb-renerated larbonosotoues trauuedon toothenamel 
mayurofodeamore urelosemethod rordetermononradeleased ondofodual's 
arethanotherrorensol methodslan. 

theaboferround nullearteststhatollurred betoeen 1955 and 1963 
dramatolally onlreasedthe amountorthe osotouelarbon 14 onthe 
atmosuhere. thelefelsrauodly ezualoqedaroundthe rlobe, efen 
thourhtheekulosoons ollurred atonlyareo lolatoons, andentered 
ulantsontherood lhaonthrourh uhotosynthesos. by eatonrulants, 
andanomals thatreedonulants, humansabsorb larbon 14 andekhobot 
lefelsor thebenorn, traleable osotouethat aresomolar toatmosuherol 
lonlentratoons. ohatosmore, larbon 14 delaysootha halr-loreor 
5,730 years, auhenomenon thatsloentosts lanekuloot asaoayto 
determone thearesorobxelts thatlontaon theosotoue. rortheneo 
study, xonasrrosen orthemedolal nobelonstotute onstoljholm, 
soeden, andhoslollearues analyqedthelarbon lontentortoothenamel. 
belauseteeth donotekhobotany turnoferduronr auerson's lore, 
thesloentosts landetermone ohenatoothrormed bylomuaronrots 
larbon 14 lontenttouast atmosuherollefels. onaddotoon, adult 
teethrormduronra dostonltuerood orlholdhood defeloumentaround 
are 12, sothosonrormatoon lanbetranslatedonto theareoran 
ondofodual. 
